Add educational content to style guide (#251)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: operations/operations/publishing/publishing-guidelines/documentation-style-guide.md

# Documentation Style Guide

When writing for Mattermost, always think about the audience that will be reading your writing. Mattermost’s audience can vary, but we typically communicate with a technical audience and want to present Mattermost as being a friend of the practitioner in development, IT, and operations. It must be accurate and clear, be presented with a style and tone that is appropriate for technical or educational content, and easy to navigate.

> When writing educational content the audience is placed at the center of attention, opposing technical documentation where it is the documents content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An exception is Customer Education content where the audience is placed at the center of attention, as opposed to technical documentation where it is the document's content that is the primary focus.
```
Do you have examples of both? As they are two different ideas it might be helpful to a new writer or contributor to have a point of reference.

Author: How about 

> While Mattermost provides options to make mobile deployment as easy as possible, it will take time and iteration. 
>
>We are here to [support](https://link-to-support-section) you.

As opposed to:
> Deploying the Mattermost Mobile App will take time and iteration.

We could include or refer to it in the Voice section, WDYT @justinegeffen

Reviewer: Would the above examples be related to this paragraph or should they be added to the voice section? They would fit better in the voice section if they're not already there.

Author: this example is part of this pr in the voice section

## Document structure

Structure and organization are an important part of a document's ease of use and its understandability. Information should be organized and presented in a logical order, with similar subjects grouped together in the same section. In most cases, a document has a title, an introductory paragraph, and one or more sections.

> Try to keep only one topic in a page, with the exception of educational guides. Shorter topics are easier to reuse in other documents, are easier to write and edit, and are easier to translate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try to keep only one topic in a page. Shorter topics are easier to reuse in other documents, are easier to write and edit, and are easier to translate. 

An exception to this is Customer Education content which covers multiple topics per page.
```
Maybe have a link to a single-topic technical doc and then one to a CE doc for reference?

Author: @justinegeffen  I'd like to keep references to a minimum for maintainability purposes and I don't think examples are needed, as all CE content (right now there is only one guide, the Mobile App Deployment Guide) covers multiple topics on a page.

# Documentation Style Guide

When writing for Mattermost, always think about the audience that will be reading your writing. Mattermost’s audience can vary, but we typically communicate with a technical audience and want to present Mattermost as being a friend of the practitioner in development, IT, and operations. It must be accurate and clear, be presented with a style and tone that is appropriate for technical or educational content, and easy to navigate.

## Document structure

Structure and organization are an important part of a document's ease of use and its understandability. Information should be organized and presented in a logical order, with similar subjects grouped together in the same section. In most cases, a document has a title, an introductory paragraph, and one or more sections.

Try to keep only one topic in a page. Shorter topics are easier to reuse in other documents, are easier to write and edit, and are easier to translate.

### Educational guides

> An exception are educational guides. In their abstract they set clear expectations for a well defined audience, can have more then one topic in a page, and do not require an introductory paragraph. First person writing can be used, as they need to keep the reader interested in the subject.

Reviewer 2: Let's make the exceptions clear, and add a concise note on why those exceptions are made for educational guides.

E.g. later in this page we have a note about the abstract

```
The abstract provides a high-level overview of the content, includes context, and outlines the value or goal to the reader. It often helps to write the abstract first, as it provides a framework for the content that follows. Keep in mind that the description is displayed in the search results along with the page title. People read the description to help them decide if the document is the one that they want.
```

I'm wondering how much educational guides deviate from this?

Author: The Idea was to write a single paragraph telling before hand any changes to the below sections for someone to write educational content, so they only have to read a single paragraph if they are already  familiar with the style/voice/tone guidelines.

Of course the deviations can be mentioned per paragraph, but someone already familiar with the document would need to reread everything in order to get all differences.

### Document sections

To make pages easier for people to quickly scan for the content that they're looking for, break your document up into logical sections. Each section should have a heading, and the heading should relate to the content of the section. A section heading is not required if you have only one section.

**Use sentence case for the section heading (e.g. "This section is about types of headings") except where a word/phrase is a proper noun (e.g. "Mattermost"), the name of a country/region (e.g. "The United States of America"), and so on.**

### Abstract

The abstract provides a high-level overview of the content, includes context, and outlines the value or goal to the reader. It often helps to write the abstract first, as it provides a framework for the content that follows. Keep in mind that the description is displayed in the search results along with the page title. People read the description to help them decide if the document is the one that they want. 

> An exception is Customer Education content where this is replaced by Learning Objectives which set clear expectations for a well-defined audience.

Reviewer 2: Out of curiosity - if learning objectives set 'clear expectations for a well-defined audience', how much will it differ from the abstract which provides 'a high-level overview of the content .. and outlines the value or goal to the reader', and which 'people read the description to help them decide if the document is the one that they want'

Author: Very good find @jasonblais , here are my thoughts:

### Educational Guides - this PR

> clear expectations
- How the reader benefits from reading the guide - what  exact knowledge is taught
- Other expectations
    - How long working through/with the guide will take 
    - What similar topics are not covered
    - The audience is at the center of attention (what can the reader expect)

> for a well-defined audience
 - This audience can be everything from very narrow (System Administrators) to a larger audience (System Administrators, Project Managers, and IT Leaders in general), but it has to be named

### Existing Documentation

> a high-level overview of the content .. and outlines the value or goal to the reader
- What topics the document touches
- *outlines the value or goal* is very universal and unspecific
- the document itself is the center of attention (what does the document bring to the reader)
- reader is not specified in the document itself but by docs category (User, Administrator, Developer)

### TL;DR

- Educational guides have no need to outline the content but set more specific expectations
- different focus in language, focus is the reader as opposed to focus is the document

Reviewer 3: @faase I would recommend adding these examples to the content in this piece.  Even the TL;DR clarifies the differences well.

Author: Incorporating this I'd add to the **Documentation Style Guide** section

> When writing educational content the audience is placed at the center of attention, opposing technical documentation where it is the documents content.

and change the **Abstract** section to

> An exception is Customer Education content that has no need to outline the content but set more specific expectations for a well-defined audience. 
>
> Clearly name the audience as it can be narrow (System Administrators), but also large (System Administrators, Project Managers, and IT Leaders in general). When setting the expectations answer these questions
>
> - How will the reader benefits from reading the guide - what exact knowledge is taught?
> - How long will it take to work through the guide?
> - What similar topics are not covered?

This should cover all the content in this comment but integrate it seemless into the existing structure. WDYT @wiersgallak

Reviewer 3: @faase looks good to me.

### Document sections

To make pages easier for people to quickly scan for the content that they're looking for, break your document up into logical sections. Each section should have a heading, and the heading should relate to the content of the section. A section heading is not required if you have only one section.

**Use sentence case for the section heading (e.g. "This section is about types of headings") except where a word/phrase is a proper noun (e.g. "Mattermost"), the name of a country/region (e.g. "The United States of America"), and so on.**

> 

Reviewer: There's an extra line here that I think we can remove.

### Abstract

The abstract provides a high-level overview of the content, includes context, and outlines the value or goal to the reader. It often helps to write the abstract first, as it provides a framework for the content that follows. Keep in mind that the description is displayed in the search results along with the page title. People read the description to help them decide if the document is the one that they want. 

> For educational guides they additionally set clear expectations for a well defined audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An exception is Customer Education content where this is replaced by Learning Objectives which set clear expectations for a well-defined audience.
```

### Table of contents

If the document contains more than four sections or subsections, add a table of contents to help the user navigate the document. The table of contents should be added below the abstract. 

### Introductory paragraph

Each page should have an introduction that acts as a short description of the document. The short description should be a single paragraph of no more than three sentences. 

> An introductory paragraph is not needed for educational guides.

Reviewer: Question: In the [deployment guide](https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/mobile-app-deployment.html) there's an "About this Guide" section with learning objectives. Would that be considered the CE equivalent of an introduction?

Author: I considered it part of the abstract as the Learning Objectives summarize the document.

> An introductory paragraph is not needed for educational guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An exception is Customer Education content where the introduction is replaced by the Learning Objectives section.
```

### Document sections

To make pages easier for people to quickly scan for the content that they're looking for, break your document up into logical sections. Each section should have a heading, and the heading should relate to the content of the section. A section heading is not required if you have only one section.

**Use sentence case for the section heading (e.g. "This section is about types of headings") except where a word/phrase is a proper noun (e.g. "Mattermost"), the name of a country/region (e.g. "The United States of America"), and so on.**

### Abstract

The abstract provides a high-level overview of the content, includes context, and outlines the value or goal to the reader. It often helps to write the abstract first, as it provides a framework for the content that follows. Keep in mind that the description is displayed in the search results along with the page title. People read the description to help them decide if the document is the one that they want. 

> 

Reviewer: I wonder if we can make the following section a bolded subsection: **Customer Education**, so it's easier to see the transition? 3/5 for easier reading.

Author: I've thought about it, but then I thought it would be inconsistent with all the other CE subsection of the other topics, so I decided against it 3/5.

How about changing

> An exception is Customer Education content that [...]

to

> An exception is **Customer Education** content that [...]

?

Reviewer: That works for me. :)

> An exception is Customer Education content that has no need to outline the content but set more specific expectations for a well-defined audience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An exception is Customer Education content that has no need to outline the content but sets more specific expectations for a well-defined audience. 
```

> Clearly name the audience as it can be narrow (System Administrators), but also large (System Administrators, Project Managers, and IT Leaders in general). When setting the expectations answer these questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clearly name the audience as it can be narrow (System Administrators), but also large (System Administrators, Project Managers, and IT leaders in general). When setting the expectations answer these questions:
```

> - How will the reader benefits from reading the guide - what exact knowledge is taught?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How will the reader benefit from the guide - what exact knowledge is taught?
```

- How long will it take to work through the guide?

> - What similar topics are not covered?

Reviewer: Does this mean those topics are covered in the guide or should be mentioned as not covered in this specific guide?

Author: What similar topics are not covered in this guide (the guide you are writing)?

The Idea is to set the expectations as clear as possible. For example writing about plug-ins it might be a good idea to make sure it's not about extensions.

Reviewer: That's a good explanation. One option is to add it to the final point for clarity.

Author: Sure thing! I'll change it from

> What similar topics are not covered?

to 

> What similar topics are not covered in this guide?

Reviewer: "Are there similar topics not covered in this guide?" could also be an option?

### Document sections

To make pages easier for people to quickly scan for the content that they're looking for, break your document up into logical sections. Each section should have a heading, and the heading should relate to the content of the section. A section heading is not required if you have only one section.

**Use sentence case for the section heading (e.g. "This section is about types of headings") except where a word/phrase is a proper noun (e.g. "Mattermost"), the name of a country/region (e.g. "The United States of America"), and so on.**

### Abstract

The abstract provides a high-level overview of the content, includes context, and outlines the value or goal to the reader. It often helps to write the abstract first, as it provides a framework for the content that follows. Keep in mind that the description is displayed in the search results along with the page title. People read the description to help them decide if the document is the one that they want. 

An exception is **Customer Education** content that has no need to outline the content but sets more specific expectations for a well-defined audience. 

> Clearly name the audience as it can be narrow (System Administrators), but also large (System Administrators, Project Managers, and IT leaders in general). When setting the expectations answer these questions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For **Customer Education**, clearly name the audience as it can be narrow (System Administrators), but also large (System Administrators, Project Managers, and IT leaders in general). When setting the expectations answer these questions:
```
